---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/2/
type: stop
section_title: Infrastructure
title: Traces of a Legacy
page_rank: 2
stop_id: 2
audio_file: infrastructure.mp3
hero_images:
 - path: 02-second-stop-01.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 2
 - path: 02-second-stop-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 2
image: /assets/img/infrastructure.jpg
---

The establishment of a collection dedicated to modern and contemporary art from the Arab world was a visionary initiative. What began as a conversation in the early 1990s between artist and collector Sheikh Hassan bin Mohammed bin Ali Al Thani and his mentor, Yousef Ahmad, led to the development of a private museum and, eventually, to a public collection focused on Arab art—one of the largest of its kind.
A key moment in this process was the launch of an artist residency program, initiated after a first group of artworks arrived from Baghdad. Concerned by the scarcity of art materials in 1990s Iraq, then under international sanctions, Al Thani—working in consultation with Yousef Ahmad and Dia Azzawi—invited several Iraqi artists to work in Doha. Over time, the residency expanded to include other Arab artists from cities across the region and beyond.
This section features works produced during the residency, alongside archival materials that explore the collection's founding context. Initially, the museum and the residency were based in two villas in Madinat Khalifa, which also housed Mesopotamian and Ancient Egyptian artifacts, Islamic manuscripts, and Arabesque furniture. In this culturally rich setting, some artists reimagined the interiors, transforming them into immersive, dynamic environments. In 1999, the site expanded to include the Qatar Art Center, with larger workshops for sculpture and printmaking.
Within these spaces, the artists maintained a delicate balance between individual production and collaborative exchange. While working in separate studios, they engaged in a continuous, dynamic dialogue, which included visits to museums, exhibitions, and excursions to the surrounding area—landscapes that informed and inspired their work. They were joined by other artists from various Arab cities, whom Al Thani gathered in his majlis in Doha, Cairo, or London. This fostered a cross-cultural and intergenerational conversation, transforming the residency into a vibrant cultural nexus.
Alongside the residency, a broader acquisition strategy was developed that aimed at reflecting the diversity of modern and contemporary Arab art. The archives of Mathaf—which include personal correspondence, photographs, and more—reveal that in founding an institution focused on modern and contemporary Arab art, Al Thani was not only preserving a legacy but also embodying the hopes and aspirations of an entire generation of Arab artists across the region.


### Disclaimer: This is a student project and not an official audio guide
