---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/3/
type: stop
section_title: Mathaf as Institutional Memory
title: An Exhibition History
page_rank: 3
stop_id: 3
audio_file: institutionalMemory.mp3
hero_images:
hero_images:
 - path: exhibition.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 3
 - path: exhibition.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 3
image: /assets/img/exhibition.jpg
---

Since opening fifteen years ago, Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art has established itself as a space for multifaceted creative and critical lines of thought through diverse curated art exhibitions and nuanced shows featuring works from the permanent collection. This timeline weaves together Mathaf’s history as a hub for modern and contemporary visual culture from the Arab world and the surrounding region—expanded through archival images, behind-the-scenes documentation, and publications chronicling shows held locally and internationally.
In both local and regional contexts, Mathaf acts as a platform showcasing a multitude of perspectives, including those that have been historically marginalized and under-documented. Conversely, Mathaf's international collaborations have built bridges with other institutions with the aim of expanding the global art historical canon to represent more fully artists from the region.

In both contexts, these goals have been achieved through primary research and curatorial and exhibition practices. This expansive presentation pays homage to those who have shaped Mathaf since its inception—as artists and curators, or through their intellectual and personal investment.
The timeline’s aim is also to ensure the curatorial essence of each exhibition remains intact by maintaining some of the terms and phrases that initially brought them to life. All in all, it provides a means of tracing Mathaf’s evolution over the years and a way to chronicle the regional zeitgeist since 2010. Through its investigation of a broad range of media as well as sociopolitical and personal histories, this timeline links Mathaf’s past and present to create a window into its future.

### Disclaimer: This is a student project and not an official audio guide
